Policies for Conference SubmissionsReview Process: By submitting a paper to CRV, the authors agree to the review process and understand that papers are processed by the submission system to match each manuscript to the best possible chairs and reviewers. ​ Single-Blind Review: CRV reviewing is single-blind, in that authors do not know the names of the reviewers of their papers, but the reviewers do know the names of the authors. ​ Plagiarism: Plagiarism consists of appropriating the words or results of another, without credit. Generally, reviewers can recognize plagiarism when they see it; it is unlikely that a reviewer will be uncertain whether plagiarism has occurred. Our policy on plagiarism is to refer suspected cases to the IEEE Intellectual Property office, which has an established mechanism for dealing with plagiarism and wide powers of excluding offending authors from future conferences and from IEEE journals. You can find information on this office, their procedures, and their definitions of five levels of plagiarism at this link. We will be actively checking for plagiarism. ​ Large Language Models: Authors may use any tool(s), including Large Language Models (LLMs), that they find productive in preparing a paper, but must be aware that they are responsible for any misrepresentation, factual inaccuracy or plagiarism in their paper. Papers containing citations of non-existent material will be rejected when found, and may be desk-rejected. Similarly, papers containing obvious factual inaccuracies will be rejected when found and may be desk-rejected. If asked, authors must produce the prompts or other inputs to tools they used in the process of preparing the paper and the corresponding text that was generated by the tools. ​ Confidentiality: Submissions to CRV are confidential and are not published documents. Reviewers have the responsibility to protect the confidentiality of the ideas represented in them. The ideas contained in the submissions are considered new or proprietary by the authors, and may still be considered confidential by the authors’ employers. These organizations do not consider submitting a paper to CRV to constitute a public disclosure. ​ Author Registration: Before submission, please ensure that at least one author of each submission is committed to register and attend CRV 2025 if the submission is accepted.