Thriving in the GenAI Era: Redefining Challenges and Opportunities in EducationThriving in the GenAI Era: Redefining Challenges and Opportunities in Education workshop, focuses on the evolving role of generative AI in education. This full-day event is designed for educators, researchers, and academic leaders, addressing key topics such as academic integrity, AI literacy, ethical considerations, and innovative teaching practices. Participants will gain insights into addressing biases in AI-driven tools, fostering interdisciplinary approaches, and bridging pedagogy with technology.

​

This workshop is hosted by the Werklund School of Education and the Centre for Artificial Intelligence Ethics, Literacy, and Integrity (CAIELI). It is designed for educators, researchers, and industry professionals interested in AI’s integration into education.

​​

​​

Workshop Highlights

Keynote Presentation: Dr. Phil Newton (Swansea University, UK)

Educator Testimonials: Real-world K-12 and post-secondary experiences with GenAI

Panel Discussion: Opportunities and challenges of GenAI in schools

Case Studies & Best Practices: Collaborative problem-solving on AI integration

Hands-on Workshops: Training on AI tools for teaching and learning

​

​

Organizers



Dr. Soroush Sabbaghan


Dr. Sarah Elaine Eaton


Dr. Barbara Brown


Dr. Mohammad Keyhani


Leeanne Morrow



​

​

Invited Speakers



Keynote: Dr. Phil Newton (Swansea University, UK)


K-12 Presenters: 





Cameron Taylor, Connect Charter School 


Sally Smith, Foothills School Division


Doug Stevens, Foothills School Division





Panelists: 





Shannon Benett, Connect Charter School


Michelle Barager, Chinook’s Edge School Division


Kirk Linton, Calgary Chathotic School District


Sue Mylde – Rundle School



​​

​

Important Dates​



Workshop Date: May 26, 2025



​

​

Workshop Structure (Draft Schedule)



9:00 AM – 9:30 AM | Registration and Networking Breakfast


9:30 AM – 10:15 AM | Keynote Presentation – Dr. Phil Newton


10:15 AM – 11:00 AM | Educator Testimonials – Real-World GenAI Applications


11:00 AM – 11:15 AM | Break


11:15 AM – 12:30 PM | Panel Discussion – Opportunities and Challenges of GenAI in Schools


12:30 PM – 1:30 PM | Lunch and Networking


1:30 PM – 3:00 PM | Case Studies and Best Practices – Collaborative group work


3:00 PM – 3:15 PM | Break


3:15 PM – 4:30 PM | Hands-On Workshops – AI Tools Showcase and Training


4:30 PM – 5:00 PM | Wrap-Up and Reflections







Location​​​​:

The workshop will take place in Room EDT 314, on the third floor of the Education Tower at the University of Calgary (Map). The Education Tower is accessible through the Education Block, which faces the bus loop on the 24th Avenue side of Main Campus and from the Haskayne School of Business. The third floor is accessible via stairway in the Education Tower, or via elevator if you continue through to the Education Tower. The elevator bank faces our Graduate Programs Office on the main floor of the Tower - simply take the elevator to the third floor and turn right upon exiting. 

​

If you are driving to campus, you have two lot options with daily rates: Lot 32 (the cheapest full day rate), or Lot 1 (the closest, physically, but the most expensive) - you can check out all of the lot details via Parking Services.

​

Here is the Google Map Link to the Education Tower: https://maps.app.goo.gl/hFvJEJhwSu9ro3r99